

---

### Explain the significance of the RELU Activation function in Convolution Neural Network.

As a consequence, the usage of ReLU helps to prevent the exponential growth in the computation required to operate the neural network. If the CNN scales in size, the computational cost of adding extra ReLUs increases linearly   

### Why do we use a Pooling Layer in a CNN?

Pooling layers are used to reduce the spatial dimensions of feature maps generated by the convolutional layers. This process helps in reducing the computational complexity of the network and prevents overfitting.

The most common pooling operation is max-pooling, which takes the maximum value from a defined region (usually 2×2 or 3×3) of the feature map.

### What is the size of the feature map for a given input size image, Filter Size, Stride, and Padding amount?

We can compute the spatial size of the output volume as a function of the input volume size (W), the receptive field size of the Conv Layer neurons (F), the stride with which they are applied (S), and the amount of zero padding used (P) on the border. You can convince yourself that the correct formula for calculating how many neurons “fit” is given by (W−F+2P)/S+1. For example for a 7x7 input and a 3x3 filter with stride 1 and pad 0 we would get a 5x5 output. With stride 2 we would get a 3x3 output. L

### An input image has been converted into a matrix of size 12 X 12 along with a filter of size 3 X 3 with a Stride of 1. Determine the size of the convoluted matrix.

We can compute the spatial size of the output volume as a function of the input volume size (W), the receptive field size of the Conv Layer neurons (F), the stride with which they are applied (S), and the amount of zero padding used (P) on the border. You can convince yourself that the correct formula for calculating how many neurons “fit” is given by (W−F+2P)/S+1. For example for a 7x7 input and a 3x3 filter with stride 1 and pad 0 we would get a 5x5 output. With stride 2 we would get a 3x3 output.

### Explain the terms “Valid Padding” and “Same Padding” in CNN.

Padding refers to the process of adding a layer of zeros/ones to the sides of a matrix. We perform padding so that we can smoothly implement the convolution operation.  

To sum up, ‘valid’ padding means no padding. The output size of the convolutional layer shrinks depending on the input size & kernel size. On the contrary, ‘same’ padding means using padding.   

### What are the different types of Pooling? Explain their characteristics.


### Does the size of the feature map always reduce upon applying the filters? Explain why or why not.


### What is Stride? What is the effect of high Stride on the feature map?

Stride refers to the number of steps the filter matrix can shift after evaluating the convolution between input and filter. When the stride=1, the filter matrix shifts by one pixel; if it is 2, then the filter matrix must shift by two pixels.


### Explain the role of the flattening layer in CNN.

The flattening layer is usually towards the end of the CNN architecture, and it is used to transform all the two-dimensional matrices into a single lengthy vector. The output of this layer is passed to the fully-connected layer.


### List down the hyperparameters of a Pooling Layer.

The hyperparameters for a pooling layer are Filter size, Stride, Max, or average pooling.   

### What is the role of the Fully Connected (FC) Layer in CNN?

Fully connected layers serve as the final stage in a CNN architecture. They connect every neuron from the previous layer to every neuron in the subsequent layer, transforming the output from the convolutional and pooling layers into a single, continuous vector.

This vector is then passed through an activation function, such as a softmax function, to generate the final output probabilities for each clas

In an image classification task with 10 classes, the fully connected layer will output a 10-dimensional vector, with each element representing the probability of the input belonging to a specific class.

### Briefly explain the two major steps of CNN i.e, Feature Learning and Classification. 


### Let us consider a Convolutional Neural Network having three different convolutional layers in its architecture as –


### Explain the significance of “Parameter Sharing” and “Sparsity of connections” in CNN.


### What’s the difference between batch normalization and dropout layers in a CNN?

Batch Norm is a normalization technique done between the layers of a Neural Network instead of in the raw data. It is done along mini-batches instead of the full data set.
-  normalizing the inputs to take on a similar range of values can speed up learning.
-  Batch Norm reduces the internal covariate shift of the network.
-  it seems that Batch Norm has a regularization effect.  Because it is computed over mini-batches and not the entire data set, the model’s data distribution sees each time has some noise. This can act as a regularizer, 

Dropout is a _regularization technique_ that randomly drops out some fraction of the neurons in a layer during training. This helps to prevent overfitting by blocking information from certain neurons completely to make sure the _neurons do not co-adapt_. Dropout forces the network to learn more robust features that are useful in making predictions.

### What is the main purpose of using zero padding in a CNN?

Zero padding is a technique used in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to preserve the original input size.

It involves adding zeros to the borders of the input feature map when it is being processed by the kernel of a CNN.

The main purpose of using zero padding is to avoid losing information at the boundaries of the input feature map and to control the shrinkage of dimension after applying filters larger than 1x1.

### When would you prefer a 1D convolution over 2D convolutions?

1D convolutions are typically used when the input data is 1D, such as a time series or text. 2D convolutions are typically used when the input data is 2D, such as an image.

### Which CNNs are you used?

 EfficientNet-B0
 
https://theaisummer.com/cnn-architectures/
